---
title: Qualcomm Presentation
toc: true
branch: master
badges: true
comments: true
author: Haseeb Beg
categories: [fastpages, jupyter, Week 8] 
layout: post
---

# Intro To Engineering 

Engineering at it's core is the practice of using math and science to solve problems. There are many different types of engineers. Some include:
- Mechanical
- Software
- Civil
- Aeronautical
- Biotech
One way to find your specific field that was mentioned was process of elimination. Personally for me, software and biotech seem equally lucrative and cool.  

## Women in Engineering

One problem that was discussed in this presentation was that of the unfair treatment of women in STEM fields. Even in the year 2022, some companies do not take women seriously. There have even been scandals recently about companies like Activision-Blizzard harrassing women and treating them horribly. Engineering sees no gender, no concept of race, but rather, someone's creativity and problem solving ability. 

## What Should I Do to Get Into a Good CS University?

Someone in the meeting asked a question regarding good CS universities and what to do in order to get into them. The response was what I expected for the most part. CS based extracurriculars and experience along with a good show of academic excellence and rigor would be ideal. I should try to find CS classes I can take at local community colleges. Additionally, in order to build my CS portfolio for the future, I should try and look to see if any companies are taking internships. 1

# Intersections Between STEM and Buisness at Qualcomm

## The Tenets

There are 3 tenets to follow when working with STEM and buisness: 
- Stay curious
- Do not give up, ever
- Know the difference between invention and innovation.

Staying curious is the key to bringing new, innovative things to the table. This desire to learn new things and implementing new ways of using said things is crucial. This leads into never giving up, as if you give up when the going gets tough, how will you find the new, innovative things. Bill Gates would not have made Microsoft if he had given up halfway through because "it was too hard" or "it had a very little chance of success." Lastly, while invention is creating an entirely new thing, innovation is the proccess of refining said thing. 
