---
description: My thoughts on the Big Idea 5.6 talk.
title: Big Idea 5.6!
toc: true
comments: true
categories: [Week 22, Big Idea 5]
layout: post  
---

## Personal Identifiable Information (PII)
- PII is information that can be used to identify a user.
- PII can be made up of a variety of different kinds of data, including names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, passwords, bank codes, etc... 
- PII can also include information about a person’s physical or mental health, financial information, or other information that can be used to identify a person.
- In our projects we used a database in order to store user data. This data can be seen as PII.
We have also seen personal information when signing up for services that we use such as accounts for microsoft, google, github, etc. which store emails, phone numbers, often address and other information while setting up the tools that we use to create our projects. 

## Feeling PII & Personal Exposure
I believe that PII is necessary for user data and accounts, and this is one of the only ways to validate whether or not a person is tied to an account. Some examples of this I have seen are Google, Youtube, and GitHub. These platforms store PII user data in order to identify them whenever they log in.

## Good Vs. Bad Password
-A good password is one that are random, complex, and long as it makes them harder to decrypt and social engineer and makes them harder to guess or trick out of you. Bad passwords are ones that are easy to guess, easy to social engineer, or easy to trick out of you such as your name, your birthday, your address, your phone number, pet's name, etc. 

Good passwords are random, complex, and full of random obscure symbols. This makes it hard for hackers to brute force guess your password. Also, it's good to have different passwords for different websites.

## Symmetric & Asymmetric Encryption 
Symmetric encryption is a type of encryption where the same key is used to encrypt and decrypt the data. This is the most common type of encryption, as it is used for most password encryption systems. This means that there is a faster encryption and decryption process as the same key is used for both. Example Symmetric Encryption: AES, DES, 3DES, etc.

Asymmetric encryption is a type of encryption where there are two distinct keys, a public and private key. The public key is used to encrypt the data and the private key is used to decrypt the data. This is the type of encryption that we used for our GitHub fastpages blog.
Example Asymmetric Encryption: RSA, ECC, etc.

## AWS Deployment
We used private and public SSH keys while deploying our project to AWS. We also created a .pem file that we used to look into our instance. We used some basic encryption in our AWS project. However, other than that I don't think we used any other encryption in our project as we were not knowledgeable enough to do so.

## How I got Phished
When I was only 8 years old, I got an email from a random person who's email was αmαz0n@gmail.com. This person claimed that my Amazon account was hacked, but thing is, I was using my dad's phone to play games. I saw this and freaked out, the guy asked for $50 in order to fix the account. Me being a scared, naive little kid, I thought that this was the best course of action. I sent the person the money, and lets just say, I didn't get birthday presents that