---
description: My thoughts on the Big Idea 5.1 talk.
title: Big Idea 5.1!
toc: true
comments: true
categories: [Week 20, Big Idea 5]
layout: post
---
# Class Notes
## 5.1: Class Circle Talk

### ChatGPT
Benefits
- Can help you with specific questions.
- Can help proofread essays and code.
- Can help write randomized prompts.

Drawbacks
- Academically dishonest by nature.
- Dependability decreases as the nature of the prompt becomes more complex.
- Gets its knowledge from certain databases/sources. Information can be biased and incorrect.

### Drones
Benefits
- Can travel long distance
- Ability to record/videotape extreme views without risk to human life.

Drawbacks
- Malfunctions and breaking can hurt people.
- People can spy on others with drones.

### Social Media
Benefits
- People can speak out about their opinion on certain matters.
- People have increased networking opportunities.

Drawbacks
- Can lead to unhealthy decrease 
- Can be addcitive to the user

### Video Games
Benefits
- Allows players to make friends online
- Some games can train hand-eye coordination
- Good way to de-stress

Drawbacks
- Can be addictive to the user

Without tech, it can be hard to complete certain tasks that require online tools. Especially due to the pandemic, technology has become a staple in education.



# Hacks

### Beneficial Effects of Computing
1. Production of goods dramatically increased due to higher levels of automation.
2. Performing mathamatical operations has never been easier due to modern-day computational technology.
3. The general public now has access to most of the world's information.

### Harmful Effects of Computing
1. People have beecome reliant on these modern computers for day-to-day life.
2. Jobs are going to be replaced by machines that are more capable, impacting livelyhoods and economies.
3. Misuese of computers can be detrimental for one's health.

### Dopamine and Addictions
I believe that there is a serious issue with technological addictions and the way it impacts teenagers and education. In this digital age, almost all high schoolers have access to social media, video games, and other forms of entertainment. This leads to technology being used to be unproductive and waste of time. Additionally, as companies are chasing more and more profits, games and social media apps are becoming more addictive and predatory in nature, and now we are at a point where it's basically a drug. Designed to get users hooked, these apps lead to people getting very unproductive and wasting time. I have experienced this personally, as I find that when I do my work, I'll often get distracted by messages and thoughs of watching Youtube and such. 

# Reflection
Overall, this lesson taught me that technology has many different use cases, and by that same coin, many different disadvantages.